Hello everybody and welcome back.
In this lecture I'd like to take a closer look at the game loop that we've currently got and how we
can expand it to make a more complete game.
Now we have our basic functionality works.
The first thing I want to say to you all is congratulations.
We have a working game now.
It's not a great game at the moment.
That is certainly true.
But we have something that is functionally working which is great.
It means that our code is executing how we intended it to.
Now let's have a think about the rest of the game and map out how it will work and its overall behavior.
So we should start off by thinking closely about where we are at the moment.
So we've currently got I printed a welcome message.
We've hardcoded the hidden word.
We've moved it to the appropriate place now.
And we're asking for a guess.
So that's great.
We then wait for some user inputs and then we got some code simply to check whether or not it's correct.
Now there's much more to do with the assessment of it.
We could check if it's an ISO gram we can check that he's got the right number of characters as so many
other checks that we can put in place here.
But at the moment we're simply assessing.
Did you type in the hidden word or not.
So I'd like to jump straight into a challenge because I want you to all think about how you'd like to
map out the additional game components.
Okay.
So what fundamentally do we need here.
We need some lives.
We need to make sure that the player has enough guesses reasonable amounts to dictate how long or how
many tries they're going to be playing the game for the players inputs also needs checking we can check
whether it's an Isaac Ram we can check to make sure that that is no repeated letters we can check that
it's the right length as well and whether or not you deduct a life if it is one of those things that's
entirely up to you.
Now the wrong answer should deprecate the lives.
So if we've typed in an ice a ground that's the wrong thing we should remove a life after that.
And lives can run out well what happens then.
So what I'd like you to do is take your original flow charts adapt it or make a new one incorporating
these new elements.
And what I show you won't necessarily be the right answer.
There won't be a right answer here when I sat down with Sam when we were prototyping this section.
Both of us came up with slightly different flow charts.
Both of them were right.
Both of them both had logic that would work in them.
We just did some of the things at different points.
Pause a video now and give that a go
okay.
Everybody welcome back.
Let's go ahead now and have a look at the new game loop that I've put together okay.
So I've had to rejig it all fits on the screen.
The first thing we're going to do is print the welcome message.
Welcome to the game.
Let's start at some point we've got to set lives and choose a hidden word.
Now at the moment we're hard coding that hidden word.
But shortly we'll be picking that from a list itself and the lives themselves that will just be a integer
at the moment.
And eventually we may sets that to the length of the hidden word or something along those lines.
And then we're prompting the player for a guess.
Then we need to wait for their input.
So at this point we're just waiting for the player to type something in on that terminal.
And then once they've pressed enter we need to assess whether or not it's valid and correct and if yes
of course you've won the game.
Now this new branch that's about to appear when we go.
No.
Well this is the new parts of the game.
So this is where we can then this is where we can then subtract a life then we need to assess whether
or not the lives are greater than zero.
Has the player run out of lives.
If not then we can just ask for a guess again and just keep looping round.
But if the lives have reached zero I you've run out of lives then you've failed the game so we prints
out a failed message and he prompts the player whether they want to play again.
And then we have to wait for user inputs again once they've given that we can assess it.
And if yes we simply set the lives and choose the hit and word again.
Now initially as I've said that will be the same number of lives and the same hit and words we can test
everything.
But eventually we'll be able to pull from a list of words.
So then we can test our real skills.
And of course if the player selects no then we quit the game and we leave.
So there we go.
That's our new game loop as you can see it's a bit more complicated than it was originally but it's
encapsulated all of the high level logic that we need to think about.
There are some details in here but we'll get to those details in the next lecture.
Please share your flow charts over on the forum I'd like to see how you thought about the progression
of your game.
Have you got some extra steps that you want to include in your game.
I'd love to see what you've come up with.
Please share your work over on the forum and I'll see you all in the next lecture.